Nomad Docs: Enhance client intro release note & add usage guide (#1384)
hashicorp/web-unified-docs: content/nomad/v1.11.x/content/docs/deploy/clusters/connect-nodes.mdx

Refer to the [`consul` stanza] documentation for the complete set of configuration
options.

## Use client node introduction tokens

You may restrict which clients join your cluster by configuring client
introduction tokens. The client node introduction feature is like multi-factor
authentication for your Nomad clusters. It does not replace mTLS but adds a
second layer of security to prevent an unauthorized or misconfigured client from
joining a Nomad cluster. 

Each layer answers a distinct question: 

- mTLS: Does the client have valid certificates for the cluster?
- Client introduction token: Does the client have a valid token to join the
cluster?

You do not need to configure mTLS to use client node introduction tokens, but we
do recommend securing your cluster with mTLS.

You may optionally specify node names, node pools, and TTLs when you generate
client introduction tokens.

> Follow these steps to use client node introduction tokens:

Author: I removed the nomad token section.

1. [Create an ACL policy in which the node has write permissions](#create-an-acl-policy).   
1. [Create an ACL role from the policy](#create-an-acl-role).
1. [Generate a Nomad token](#generate-a-nomad-token).
1. [Generate a client introduction token](#generate-a-client-introduction-token).
1. [Configure the Nomad agent to use client introduction](#configure-the-nomad-agent).
1. [Start the Nomad agent](#start-the-nomad-agent).
1. [Monitor client join failures](#monitor-client-join-failures).

### Create an ACL policy

This example creates the `node:write` policy required to generate tokens.

1. Create a policy file called `client-introduction.hcl`.

   ```hcl
   node {
    policy = "write"
   }
   ```

1. Create the policy.

   ```shell-session
   nomad acl policy apply client-introduction client-introduction.hcl
   ```

### Create an ACL role

> This example creates an ACL role called `client-introduction`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create an ACL role, and attach the policy you created to the role.

This example creates an ACL role with the name `client-introduction` that uses the policy `client-introduction`.
```
1. Instructions to begin the section, then the example.
2. Trying to point out both CLI flags because the example uses the same name but that isn't a requirement.

Name         = client-intro-token-1
Type         = client
Global       = false
Create Time  = 2025-11-18 21:01:44.62075624 +0000 UTC
Expiry Time  = 2025-11-19 05:01:44.62075624 +0000 UTC
Create Index = 128
Modify Index = 128
Policies     = []

Roles
ID                                    Name
cf0b4a43-b00f-cc30-b656-b34d66151b04  client-introduction
```

### Generate a client introduction token

The following snippets generate a basic token.

<Tabs>
<Tab heading="CLI">

Use the [`nomad node intro create` command](/nomad/commands/node/intro/create) to generate the client introduction token.

```shell-session
nomad node intro create  > intro_token.jwt
```

The `intro-token.jwt` contents are similar to this.

```shell-session
 "eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6IjljZDgy..."
```

</Tab>
<Tab heading="API">

Use the [client introduction identity
endpoint](/nomad/api-docs/acl/identities#create-client-introduction-identity) to
generate the client introduction token. This example sends an empty JSON object,
but you may use a JSON payload file to specify parameters such as `NodeName`,
`NodePool`, and `TTL`.

```shell-session
curl \
    --request POST \

>     --header "X-Nomad-Token: d99d678d-426c-330e-74f3-de53a868e2f9" \

Reviewer: Here's the `client-intro-token-1` ACL token value. So now I have a few questions.

1. Should the CLI instructions have included a step to use the ACL token as well?
2. Are you supposed to create a separate ACL token for each node, and that's why it's `token-1`?
3. Or should you be creating a separate intro token for each client, using the one shared ACL token?

But now I'm confused about the workflow. You create an ACL token so that a client node has permission to contact a server and change policies (which covers creating client introduction tokens). Then the node uses the client introduction token it creates to join the cluster it already has a valid ACL token from? Why the dedicated client token, then, when there's already an ACL token being used?

client without without a valid token. Refer to the [`server.client_introduction`
block
documentation](/nomad/docs/configuration/server#client_introduction-parameters)
for additional enforcement options.

<CodeBlockConfig highlight="8-12">

```hcl
data_dir = "/opt/nomad/"
acl {
  enabled = true
}
server {
  enabled          = true
  bootstrap_expect = 1
  client_introduction {
    enforcement          = "strict" # Default = "warn"
    default_identity_ttl = "5m"     # Default = "5m"
    max_identity_ttl     = "30m"    # Default = "30m"
  }
}
tls {
  http = true
  rpc  = true
  ca_file   = "/opt/nomad/tls/nomad-agent-ca.pem"
  cert_file = "/opt/nomad/tls/global-server-nomad.pem"
  key_file  = "/opt/nomad/tls/global-server-nomad-key.pem"
}
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

There is no additional client configuration.

### Start the Nomad agent

We recommend setting the JWT token in an environment variable called
`NOMAD_CLIENT_INTRO_TOKEN`. The next option is to set it in the
[`-client-intro-token` parameter](/nomad/commands/agent#client-intro-token) of
the `nomad agent` command. Alternately, you may place the `intro_token.jwt` file
in the client's state directory, which is by default [the

> `<data_dir>/client_state_dir>`

Reviewer: Missing and/or extra bracket?
